---
title: 'Web Extend - FAQ'
subject: 'Getting Started, WebExtend'
old_url: 'http://emarsys.dev/web-extend/faq/'
---

<table border="0" cellpadding="1" class="wikitable" style="width: 100%; border-width: 0px; border-style: solid;"><thead><tr><th style="text-align: left;">Is my business data safe with Web Extend?</th> </tr></thead><tbody><tr><td style="text-align: left; border-color: #fff; background-color: #fff; color: #555555;">Absolutely. Emarsys holds the ISO 27001 certificate and uses the highest [encryption standards for data transfer](/Resources/suite-security.md). Furthermore, the data collected on your web shop is used to create statistical models your your account only, and does not contribute to any central model.</td> </tr></tbody><thead><tr><th style="text-align: left;">How secure is my product catalogue for the daily updates?</th> </tr></thead><tbody><tr><td style="text-align: left; border-color: #fff; background-color: #fff; color: #555555;">Your product catalogue should only contain product information that is anyway publicly available on your website. Even so, Web Extend supports fetching password-protected catalogue files on secure URLs. A standard URL for a password-protected file should look something like this:https://username:password@server.foo.com/catalog.csv</td> </tr></tbody><thead><tr><th style="text-align: left;">Can Web Extend track the same visitor across multiple devices? (For example, if they browse my shop from a desktop PC at work and a laptop at home.)</th> </tr></thead><tbody><tr><td style="text-align: left; border-color: #fff; background-color: #fff; color: #555555;">**Yes**. Since we track non-identified visitors with a persistent cookie, we can keep all information from that device and connect it to a customer ID as soon as they use the same device to log in to the website or click a trackable link leading to it from an Emarsys email. The cookie will of course collect all visitor data, and will not differentiate between actual visitors if more than one person is using that device. The cookie will also only keep data for as long as it is active (cookies have a rolling 1-year lifetime from the last website visit).</td> </tr></tbody><thead><tr><th style="text-align: left;">Are the Web Recommendations SEO-friendly?</th> </tr></thead><tbody><tr><td style="text-align: left; border-color: #fff; background-color: #fff; color: #555555;">**Yes**. The Predict widgets use the links that you have provided in your product catalogue; they are exactly the same as the product links on your website. Concerning search engines, Google have been executing JavaScript and crawling our links since at least 2011.</td> </tr></tbody><thead><tr><th style="text-align: left;">How does Web Extend use product categories?</th> </tr></thead><tbody><tr><td style="text-align: left; border-color: #fff; background-color: #fff; color: #555555;">Web Extend provide category information in three ways: - Top categories (most interested products throughout the last week)
- Last session categories (categories seen in the last session)
- All categories ever purchased, etc.
 
 You should experiment with the category column you use in different scenarios. For example, **Last-session categories** is good way to express short-term interest, whereas **All categories ever purchased** is better for long-term trends.</td> </tr></tbody><thead><tr><th style="text-align: left;">Why do I only have revenue data going back to June, 2015?</th> </tr></thead><tbody><tr><td style="text-align: left; border-color: #fff; background-color: #fff; color: #555555;">In response to customer feedback, Suite version 8.3 made some of Web Extend's data available for revenue reports on the Trends and Campaign Reporting pages. These reports only relate to campaigns launched after this release (in June, 2015).</td></tr></tbody></table>