---
title: 'Suite API FAQ'
tags: SuiteAPI
old_url: 'http://emarsys.dev/suite-api/faq/'
---

<table border="0" cellpadding="1" class="wikitable" style="width: 100%;border-width: 0px;border-style: solid"><thead><tr><th style="text-align: left">What is an API?</th> </tr></thead><tbody><tr><td style="text-align: left;border-color: #fff;background-color: #fff;color: #555555">API stands for *Application Programming Interface*, which is a standard method that softwareÂ programs use to communicate with each other. It allows programmers to take advantage of other programs' capabilities. APIs can also be used to automate complex tasks, thus streamlining your workflows.The Emarsys Suite API can be used with any programming language which supports HTTP.</td> </tr></tbody><thead><tr><th style="text-align: left">What is REST?</th> </tr></thead><tbody><tr><td style="text-align: left;border-color: #fff;background-color: #fff;color: #555555">REpresentational State Transfer (REST) is the name of a software architecture for large and distributed systems composed of so-called web-services. The World Wide Web'sÂ architecture is one example of a system that conforms the REST constraints, therefore it can be called "RESTful". The Emarsys API is also built using such a REST-style architecture, a simpler and faster approach than its SOAP alternative. It communicates via HTTP requests and uses JSON as its content type and X-WSSE for authentication. Please note that not all data elements are RESTful. The real REST resources are: - email
- contactlist
- contact
- source
 
</td> </tr></tbody><thead><tr><th style="text-align: left">What is JSON?</th> </tr></thead><tbody><tr><td style="text-align: left;border-color: #fff;background-color: #fff;color: #555555">JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) is a text-based data interchange format, which wasÂ optimized for being human-readable.Â It is often used for transmitting structured data over a network connection, serving as anÂ alternative to XML.

 </td> </tr></tbody><thead><tr><th style="text-align: left">What is the advantage of an API?</th> </tr></thead><tbody><tr><td style="text-align: left;border-color: #fff;background-color: #fff;color: #555555">An API provides value in two areas: integration and automation. *Integration* means accessing the power and functionality of the Emarsys eMarketing platformÂ directly from within your own application. *Automation* means setting up complex eMarketing campaigns that run without the need forÂ any human interaction on your side.</td> </tr></tbody><thead><tr><th style="text-align: left">Doesnâ&#128;&#153;t it cost a lot of time and effort to set up an API?</th> </tr></thead><tbody><tr><td style="text-align: left;border-color: #fff;background-color: #fff;color: #555555">An integration does require effort and commitment from your side to set up.But this is a one-time investment: after you have set up your automated workflows you can create and launch email campaigns, update contact data, import and export contact lists, all at the touch of a button and without having to log in to another application. The greater yourÂ initial effort, the faster you will reap the benefits in hours saved.</td> </tr></tbody><thead><tr><th style="text-align: left">Does the API support all UI features?</th> </tr></thead><tbody><tr><td style="text-align: left;border-color: #fff;background-color: #fff;color: #555555">No. The main purpose of the API is to automate frequently used operations, not to replicateÂ the full set of UI features. If you have any specific queries, our Technical Support teams are happy to help with advice and support.For more details on these and other terms used by the API, please refer to the [Glossary](/Suite/glossary.md "Suite API â&#128;&#147; Glossary").</td></tr></tbody></table>