---
title: 'Available Field Types'
tags: 'DataManagement, Resources'
old_url: 'http://emarsys.dev/resources/data-transfer/available-field-types/'
---

Below is a list of the field types in Suite along with their characteristics and some example use cases.

<table align="left" border="1" class="wikitable" style="width: 100%;"><thead><tr><th>Field Type</th> <th>Characteristics</th> <th>Use Cases</th> </tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Numeric field</td> <td>Max. 24 digits — numbers</td> <td>For purely numeric values which need to be ranked or grouped, e.g. income, age, total purchases, etc.</td> </tr><tr><td>Short Text field</td> <td>Max. 60 characters - alphanumeric</td> <td>The standard field used to capture most information such as name, phone number, email address etc. Letters, numbers and special characters are permitted. These fields are typically used to identify contacts rather than create segments.</td> </tr><tr><td>Long Text</td> <td>Max. 255 characters - alphanumeric</td> <td>As above, but for longer data strings, such as address.</td> </tr><tr><td>Unlimited Text</td> <td>No limit - alphanumeric</td> <td>These can store any size of data. When creating them you must also define how many rows will be used if the field is displayed in a form.You should only use this size of field after consulting Emarsys Support, as there may be performance penalties if it is used in the wrong way.</td> </tr><tr><td>Date</td> <td>Day, month, year</td> <td>These are entered via a drop-down provided by Suite. This is then formatted according to the defined settings when importing and exporting.Special filter conditions allow you to filter for dates in the past, today and in the future.</td> </tr><tr><td>Single Choice</td> <td>Only one selection is permitted; you must define the values.</td> <td>By offering a preconfigured list of options, e.g. for country or number of children, you can reduce user error as well as group contacts into value ranges.</td> </tr><tr><td>Multi Choice</td> <td>Multiple selections are permitted; you must define the values.</td> <td>By offering multiple selection you can create a wide variety of segments using the same field</td> </tr><tr><td>URL</td> <td>255 characters</td> <td>The value of these fields is not altered in any way by Suite. All other fields are checked when used in link personalisation and encoded where necessary, so that the links are not broken by any characters that might be interpreted as URL syntax.If you want to include an entire link in a personalization variable, you must use this field type.</td></tr></tbody></table>