---
title: 'Campaigns - About Social Networks'
subject: 'olh, SuiteCampaigns'
old_url: 'http://emarsys.dev/suite/online-help/about-social-networks/'
---

**Campaigns** menu -> **Email Campaigns** -> **CMS **-> **Section Editor** Suite emails can be shared by their recipients directly with a wide variety of social networks. For details of supported networks, or to include a new network, please contact your account manager. #### Share with a network

 You can allow the recipients of your emails to share your content on their social networks. This can be done for both email-level content and section-level content. The functionality used depends on whether you are using your own HTML code or a template-based email, and whether you edit your sections using Standard mode or Advanced mode. The text and title which are posted depend on the network, and can be edited for some networks in the** Edit Social Networks** dialog box (see below). Please note that some networks, for example Facebook, do not allow posts which do not contain a URL. Emarsys eMarketing Suite offers a default selection of social networks for all accounts. To change this selection, or add new networks, please contact your account manager. #### Enable sharing the entire content of a template-based-email

 On the Content Creation page, go to **Additional features** and tick **Share with a network**. This adds a section with the social network icons to your template. The location of this section is fixed and depends on the template design. The descriptive text, selection and display order of the icons can be defined in the **Edit Social Networks** dialog box. For email-level content, the URL which is posted on the network is generated by Emarsys eMarketing Suite and links to an archived version of the email. If you are using personalization variables or conditional text, the shared content will reflect the properties of the recipient who shared the email. You can also replace this URL with one of your own, for example a URL leading to a landing page. #### Enable sharing the content of a section

 In the Section Editor, Standard mode, activate **Social networks** to place the network icons in a predetermined location within the section. The selection of icons and title text can be defined in the **Edit Social Networks** dialog box. To place icons in other parts of the section, or to add multiple icons for the same network, you must use the Advanced mode. If you have already activated **Social Networks** in Standard mode before you switched to Advanced mode, the icons are displayed in the WYSIWYG editor. They can no longer be edited. You can, however, manually insert an icon for any of the available networks wherever you want it to appear in the section. **Please Note**: In Advanced mode, do not use the placeholder $SocialNetwork$; this can cause formatting issues for some templates. For section-level content, the URL is taken automatically from the first link in the section and the network post will therefore redirect to whichever destination you have defined. If there are multiple links in a section you can select which one to use, as well as defining your own. If you leave the URL field empty, only the text content of the section is shared (if the network allows this). You cannot edit the content to be shared with Facebook, since the Title and Text information will be taken automatically from the <title> and <meta name="description"> html tags of the webpage the URL directs to. The content to be shared with Twitter can be edited, however. #### Use section targets

 If an email uses section targets, different recipients will receive different sections according to the filters used. In order to prevent inappropriate content from being shared, sections with targets are automatically excluded from networks sharing unless explicitly enabled. This is done via the **Enable for network sharing** checkbox. Only one targeted section per group can be enabled for sharing. **Please Note**: It may be useful to define a ‘neutral section’ and target to an empty filter (or a filter like "email=empty") and enable this one for network share. #### Edit the text to be posted

 The **Edit Social Networks** dialog box defines how the network icons are displayed if the feature is activated via **Share with a network** and the placeholder $SocialNetwork$ is used. It does not affect those network icons which have been individually linked in custom HTML or in the Section Editor, Advanced mode. Changes to the content and network selection in **Edit** **Social** **Networks** apply to that part of the email from which the dialog box was opened. If you open the dialog box from the **Emails - Overview** page it refers to the email-level content; if you open it from within the Section Editor it refers to the section only. This way, you can personalize the content to be shared for each section. In the **Network** **Icons **section you select which networks to use. You can also define the text before the icons (if your template supports this). Click **Save** to save the current selection. Click **Save** **Default Settings** to make the current selection the default for all emails. The URL which is posted to the network is generated automatically by Emarsys eMarketing Suite when the email is shared. You can overwrite this with your own URL. In the **Network-specific Content** section you can modify the content which is posted to the individual networks and save different content for each. Click** Apply to All** to add the content of the open tab to all other networks. For Twitter, a special URL placeholder has been introduced to ensure that no link contains more than 25 characters. This placeholder will replace whatever has been defined in the URL field on the Twitter tab of the **Network-specific Content** section. You can remove this placeholder if you do not want to include a URL in the Tweet. #### Enable sharing in custom HTML emails

 There are two ways to enable sharing for custom HTML based emails: - **Sharing content via placeholder** If you include the placeholder $SocialNetwork$ in your HTML code and activate **Share with a network** below the WYSIWYG editor, the placeholder is replaced in the email by the block of network icons as defined in the **Edit Social Networks** dialog box. You can put this placeholder anywhere you like in your code (including multiple instances). Note that the placeholder is case-sensitive.

- **Sharing content via individual icons** You can also add individual network icons to your code and manually link them to a network via **Insert Link** functionality. This is useful if you want to include a number of icons for one network, linking to different landing pages (e.g. for different products), or if you want to use icons with different styles or sizes. Before you can link icons to the network you must first create the links in the** Social Network Links** dialog box. For this, the **Share with a network** checkbox does not need to be activated.
 
 To create your own social network link, click **Insert Link** and then Select **Social Network Link** to display the **Social Network** **Links** dialog box. Select a network from the drop-down list. Depending on your choice, a title, text and/or URL field is displayed, populated with the content from the section. Select which URL you want to use and edit the content, then click **Save**. The link will now be displayed in the list above. Select the network in the list and click **OK** to close the window and return to the **Insert Link** dialog box. Click **Insert** to link the selected network to the image. #### Troubleshooting

 If you are experiencing problems with Facebook or other networks sharing different content, this is most likely because the network has cached content from previous emails. In this case, please contact your Emarsys Account Manager to enable refreshing of the short URLs which are used to share the content.