---
title: 'Analysis - Individual Link Tracking'
tags: 'olh, SuiteFeatures'
old_url: 'http://emarsys.dev/suite/online-help/analysis-individual-link-tracking/'
---

**Analysis** menu ->** Emails** ->** Individual Link Tracking** This section breaks down the clicks made by the recipients graphing the unique and repeated clicks for each link. Each link is listed by its name (**Internal Link Description**) and you can click on it to get more information on which contacts used that link which brings up a section called the **Search** **Results**. In the **Search** **Results** area you can save the contacts into a contact list, e.g. if you wanted a list of all the people who clicked a competition link you can then create a new contact list from there. The breakdown is displayed in the content groups & sections, in the order they were inserted in the campaign and each name of the group & section is displayed below the graph. This can be changed so that the statistics are shown for the URLs as a whole, rather than the default section by section statistics when links are repeated in the same campaign. If you** view links grouped by URL** you get a summary of all the different links used and will appear only once which is important for emails created using HTML. E.g. if you have the same link in the beginning and near the end of the campaign you may want to know the total hits rather than how many the first entry and last entry had separately. Where you have multiple launches (e.g. a campaign with a + in front of it) the Individual Link Tracking is available for every test launch & the final launch individually, but not for the total of the campaign. This is because the results of each launch cannot be matched as the links will be completely different.