---
title: 'Analysis - Social Network Tracking'
subject: 'olh, SuiteFeatures'
old_url: 'http://emarsys.dev/suite/online-help/analysis-social-network-tracking/'
---

**Analysis** menu ->** Emails** -> **Social Network** Here you see how many times your email was shared on a social network; you see a list of the various networks that the content was shared on, and you can view a graph of the shares over time. The following information is available: <div> <table><tbody><tr><td>**Networks**</td> <td>These are the different networks on which the content of your email was shared.</td> </tr><tr><td>**Shares**</td> <td>This is the number of contacts who received your email and then shared content on a network.</td> </tr><tr><td>**Views**</td> <td>If the content of an entire email was shared, this is the number of friends of your contacts who clicked the link on a network and viewed the email.</td> </tr><tr><td>**Clicks**</td> <td>If the content of a section (i.e. the link for that section) was shared, this is the number of friends of your contacts who clicked this linkIf the content of the entire email was shared, this is the number of friends who first viewed the entire email and then clicked the link in a section.</td> </tr><tr><td>**Content Type**</td> <td>This is an overview of which sections of the email were shared.</td> </tr></tbody></table></div> When you want to graph the results you can chose the parameters by using which social network you want mapped by using the **Network** dropdown on the right, and then choosing how many days **From email launch** you want the graph to cover. You can also use the tick boxes under **Select** to choose if you want to display shares, views, and/or clicks.